1.1.  Protocol Flow

                                                 +-------------------+
                                                 |   Authz Server    |
       +--------+                                | +---------------+ |
       |        |--(A)- Authorization Request ---->|               | |
       |        |       + t(code_verifier), t_m  | | Authorization | |
       |        |                                | |    Endpoint   | |
       |        |<-(B)---- Authorization Code -----|               | |
       |        |                                | +---------------+ |
       | Client |                                |                   |
       |        |                                | +---------------+ |
       |        |--(C)-- Access Token Request ---->|               | |
       |        |          + code_verifier       | |    Token      | |
       |        |                                | |   Endpoint    | |
       |        |<-(D)------ Access Token ---------|               | |
       +--------+                                | +---------------+ |
                                                 +-------------------+

                     Figure 2: Abstract Protocol Flow



Sakimura, et al.             Standards Track                    [Page 5]

RFC 7636                       OAUTH PKCE                 September 2015


   This specification adds additional parameters to the OAuth 2.0
   Authorization and Access Token Requests, shown in abstract form in
   Figure 2.

   A. The client creates and records a secret named the "code_verifier"
      and derives a transformed version "t(code_verifier)" (referred to
      as the "code_challenge"), which is sent in the OAuth 2.0
      Authorization Request along with the transformation method "t_m".

   B. The Authorization Endpoint responds as usual but records
      "t(code_verifier)" and the transformation method.

   C. The client then sends the authorization code in the Access Token
      Request as usual but includes the "code_verifier" secret generated
      at (A).

   D. The authorization server transforms "code_verifier" and compares
      it to "t(code_verifier)" from (B).  Access is denied if they are
      not equal.

   An attacker who intercepts the authorization code at (B) is unable to
   redeem it for an access token, as they are not in possession of the
   "code_verifier" secret.

2.1.1.  Authorization Code Grant

   Clients MUST prevent authorization code injection attacks (see
   Section 4.5) and misuse of authorization codes using one of the
   following options:

   *  Public clients MUST use PKCE [RFC7636] to this end, as motivated
      in Section 4.5.3.1.
   *  For confidential clients, the use of PKCE [RFC7636] is
      RECOMMENDED, as it provides strong protection against misuse and
      injection of authorization codes as described in Section 4.5.3.1.
      Also, as a side effect, it prevents CSRF even in the presence of
      strong attackers as described in Section 4.7.1.
   *  With additional precautions, described in Section 4.5.3.2,
      confidential OpenID Connect [OpenID.Core] clients MAY use the
      nonce parameter and the respective Claim in the ID Token instead.

   In any case, the PKCE challenge or OpenID Connect nonce MUST be
   transaction-specific and securely bound to the client and the user
   agent in which the transaction was started.  Authorization servers
   are encouraged to make a reasonable effort at detecting and
   preventing the use of constant values for the PKCE challenge or
   OpenID Connect nonce.

   Note: Although PKCE was designed as a mechanism to protect native
   apps, this advice applies to all kinds of OAuth clients, including
   web applications.

   When using PKCE, clients SHOULD use PKCE code challenge methods that
   do not expose the PKCE verifier in the authorization request.
   Otherwise, attackers that can read the authorization request (cf.
   Attacker (A4) in Section 3) can break the security provided by PKCE.
   Currently, S256 is the only such method.

   Authorization servers MUST support PKCE [RFC7636].

   If a client sends a valid PKCE code_challenge parameter in the
   authorization request, the authorization server MUST enforce the
   correct usage of code_verifier at the token endpoint.

   Authorization servers MUST mitigate PKCE downgrade attacks by
   ensuring that a token request containing a code_verifier parameter is
   accepted only if a code_challenge parameter was present in the
   authorization request; see Section 4.8.2 for details.

   Authorization servers MUST provide a way to detect their support for
   PKCE.  It is RECOMMENDED for authorization servers to publish the
   element code_challenge_methods_supported in their Authorization
   Server Metadata [RFC8414] containing the supported PKCE challenge
   methods (which can be used by the client to detect PKCE support).
   Authorization servers MAY instead provide a deployment-specific way
   to ensure or determine PKCE support by the authorization server.
