1.3.1.  Authorization Code


The authorization code is obtained by using an authorization server
as an intermediary between the client and resource owner.  Instead of
requesting authorization directly from the resource owner, the client
directs the resource owner to an authorization server (via its
user-agent as defined in \[RFC2616]), which in turn directs the
resource owner back to the client with the authorization code.

Before directing the resource owner back to the client with the
authorization code, the authorization server authenticates the
resource owner and obtains authorization.  Because the resource owner
only authenticates with the authorization server, the resource
owner's credentials are never shared with the client.

The authorization code provides a few important security benefits,
such as the ability to authenticate the client, as well as the
transmission of the access token directly to the client without
passing it through the resource owner's user-agent and potentially
exposing it to others, including the resource owner.
----
"授权码是通过使用授权服务器作为客户端和资源所有者之间的中介来获得的。"
"由于资源所有者仅向授权服务器进行认证，因此资源所有者的凭证永远不会与客户端共享。"
"授权服务器再将资源所有者重定向回客户端并携带授权码。"
"将访问令牌直接传输给客户端，而无需经过资源所有者的用户代理。"
"授权码提供了一些重要的安全优势，例如能够对客户端进行身份验证。"

---

4.1.  Authorization Code Grant

   The authorization code grant type is used to obtain both access
   tokens and refresh tokens and is optimized for confidential clients.
   Since this is a redirection-based flow, the client must be capable of
   interacting with the resource owner's user-agent (typically a web
   browser) and capable of receiving incoming requests (via redirection)
   from the authorization server.

     +----------+
     | Resource |
     |   Owner  |
     |          |
     +----------+
          ^
          |
         (B)
     +----|-----+          Client Identifier      +---------------+
     |         -+----(A)-- & Redirection URI ---->|               |
     |  User-   |                                 | Authorization |
     |  Agent  -+----(B)-- User authenticates --->|     Server    |
     |          |                                 |               |
     |         -+----(C)-- Authorization Code ---<|               |
     +-|----|---+                                 +---------------+
       |    |                                         ^      v
      (A)  (C)                                        |      |
       |    |                                         |      |
       ^    v                                         |      |
     +---------+                                      |      |
     |         |>---(D)-- Authorization Code ---------'      |
     |  Client |          & Redirection URI                  |
     |         |                                             |
     |         |<---(E)----- Access Token -------------------'
     +---------+       (w/ Optional Refresh Token)

   Note: The lines illustrating steps (A), (B), and (C) are broken into
   two parts as they pass through the user-agent.

                     Figure 3: Authorization Code Flow


   The flow illustrated in Figure 3 includes the following steps:

   (A)  The client initiates the flow by directing the resource owner's
        user-agent to the authorization endpoint.  The client includes
        its client identifier, requested scope, local state, and a
        redirection URI to which the authorization server will send the
        user-agent back once access is granted (or denied).

   (B)  The authorization server authenticates the resource owner (via
        the user-agent) and establishes whether the resource owner
        grants or denies the client's access request.

   (C)  Assuming the resource owner grants access, the authorization
        server redirects the user-agent back to the client using the
        redirection URI provided earlier (in the request or during
        client registration).  The redirection URI includes an
        authorization code and any local state provided by the client
        earlier.

   (D)  The client requests an access token from the authorization
        server's token endpoint by including the authorization code
        received in the previous step.  When making the request, the
        client authenticates with the authorization server.  The client
        includes the redirection URI used to obtain the authorization
        code for verification.

   (E)  The authorization server authenticates the client, validates the
        authorization code, and ensures that the redirection URI
        received matches the URI used to redirect the client in
        step (C).  If valid, the authorization server responds back with
        an access token and, optionally, a refresh token.

4.1.1.  Authorization Request

   The client constructs the request URI by adding the following
   parameters to the query component of the authorization endpoint URI
   using the "application/x-www-form-urlencoded" format, per Appendix B:

   response_type
         REQUIRED.  Value MUST be set to "code".

   client_id
         REQUIRED.  The client identifier as described in Section 2.2.

   redirect_uri
         OPTIONAL.  As described in Section 3.1.2.

   scope
         OPTIONAL.  The scope of the access request as described by
         Section 3.3.

   state
         RECOMMENDED.  An opaque value used by the client to maintain
         state between the request and callback.  The authorization
         server includes this value when redirecting the user-agent back
         to the client.  The parameter SHOULD be used for preventing
         cross-site request forgery as described in Section 10.12.

   The client directs the resource owner to the constructed URI using an
   HTTP redirection response, or by other means available to it via the
   user-agent.

   For example, the client directs the user-agent to make the following
   HTTP request using TLS (with extra line breaks for display purposes
   only):

    GET /authorize?response_type=code&client_id=s6BhdRkqt3&state=xyz
        &redirect_uri=https%3A%2F%2Fclient%2Eexample%2Ecom%2Fcb HTTP/1.1
    Host: server.example.com

   The authorization server validates the request to ensure that all
   required parameters are present and valid.  If the request is valid,
   the authorization server authenticates the resource owner and obtains
   an authorization decision (by asking the resource owner or by
   establishing approval via other means).

   When a decision is established, the authorization server directs the
   user-agent to the provided client redirection URI using an HTTP
   redirection response, or by other means available to it via the
   user-agent.

4.1.2.  Authorization Response

   If the resource owner grants the access request, the authorization
   server issues an authorization code and delivers it to the client by
   adding the following parameters to the query component of the
   redirection URI using the "application/x-www-form-urlencoded" format,
   per Appendix B:

   code
         REQUIRED.  The authorization code generated by the
         authorization server.  The authorization code MUST expire
         shortly after it is issued to mitigate the risk of leaks.  A
         maximum authorization code lifetime of 10 minutes is
         RECOMMENDED.  The client MUST NOT use the authorization code
         more than once.  If an authorization code is used more than
         once, the authorization server MUST deny the request and SHOULD
         revoke (when possible) all tokens previously issued based on
         that authorization code.  The authorization code is bound to
         the client identifier and redirection URI.

   state
         REQUIRED if the "state" parameter was present in the client
         authorization request.  The exact value received from the
         client.

   For example, the authorization server redirects the user-agent by
   sending the following HTTP response:

     HTTP/1.1 302 Found
     Location: https://client.example.com/cb?code=SplxlOBeZQQYbYS6WxSbIA
               &state=xyz

   The client MUST ignore unrecognized response parameters.  The
   authorization code string size is left undefined by this
   specification.  The client should avoid making assumptions about code
   value sizes.  The authorization server SHOULD document the size of
   any value it issues.

4.1.2.1.  Error Response

   If the request fails due to a missing, invalid, or mismatching
   redirection URI, or if the client identifier is missing or invalid,
   the authorization server SHOULD inform the resource owner of the
   error and MUST NOT automatically redirect the user-agent to the
   invalid redirection URI.

   If the resource owner denies the access request or if the request
   fails for reasons other than a missing or invalid redirection URI,
   the authorization server informs the client by adding the following
   parameters to the query component of the redirection URI using the
   "application/x-www-form-urlencoded" format, per Appendix B:

   error
         REQUIRED.  A single ASCII [USASCII] error code from the
         following:

         invalid_request
               The request is missing a required parameter, includes an
               invalid parameter value, includes a parameter more than
               once, or is otherwise malformed.

         unauthorized_client
               The client is not authorized to request an authorization
               code using this method.

         access_denied
               The resource owner or authorization server denied the
               request.

         unsupported_response_type
               The authorization server does not support obtaining an
               authorization code using this method.

         invalid_scope
               The requested scope is invalid, unknown, or malformed.

         server_error
               The authorization server encountered an unexpected
               condition that prevented it from fulfilling the request.
               (This error code is needed because a 500 Internal Server
               Error HTTP status code cannot be returned to the client
               via an HTTP redirect.)

         temporarily_unavailable
               The authorization server is currently unable to handle
               the request due to a temporary overloading or maintenance
               of the server.  (This error code is needed because a 503
               Service Unavailable HTTP status code cannot be returned
               to the client via an HTTP redirect.)

         Values for the "error" parameter MUST NOT include characters
         outside the set %x20-21 / %x23-5B / %x5D-7E.

   error_description
         OPTIONAL.  Human-readable ASCII [USASCII] text providing
         additional information, used to assist the client developer in
         understanding the error that occurred.
         Values for the "error_description" parameter MUST NOT include
         characters outside the set %x20-21 / %x23-5B / %x5D-7E.

   error_uri
         OPTIONAL.  A URI identifying a human-readable web page with
         information about the error, used to provide the client
         developer with additional information about the error.
         Values for the "error_uri" parameter MUST conform to the
         URI-reference syntax and thus MUST NOT include characters
         outside the set %x21 / %x23-5B / %x5D-7E.

   state
         REQUIRED if a "state" parameter was present in the client
         authorization request.  The exact value received from the
         client.

   For example, the authorization server redirects the user-agent by
   sending the following HTTP response:

   HTTP/1.1 302 Found
   Location: https://client.example.com/cb?error=access_denied&state=xyz

4.1.3.  Access Token Request

   The client makes a request to the token endpoint by sending the
   following parameters using the "application/x-www-form-urlencoded"
   format per Appendix B with a character encoding of UTF-8 in the HTTP
   request entity-body:

   grant_type
         REQUIRED.  Value MUST be set to "authorization_code".

   code
         REQUIRED.  The authorization code received from the
         authorization server.

   redirect_uri
         REQUIRED, if the "redirect_uri" parameter was included in the
         authorization request as described in Section 4.1.1, and their
         values MUST be identical.

   client_id
         REQUIRED, if the client is not authenticating with the
         authorization server as described in Section 3.2.1.

   If the client type is confidential or the client was issued client
   credentials (or assigned other authentication requirements), the
   client MUST authenticate with the authorization server as described
   in Section 3.2.1.

   For example, the client makes the following HTTP request using TLS
   (with extra line breaks for display purposes only):

     POST /token HTTP/1.1
     Host: server.example.com
     Authorization: Basic czZCaGRSa3F0MzpnWDFmQmF0M2JW
     Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded

     grant_type=authorization_code&code=SplxlOBeZQQYbYS6WxSbIA
     &redirect_uri=https%3A%2F%2Fclient%2Eexample%2Ecom%2Fcb

   The authorization server MUST:

   o  require client authentication for confidential clients or for any
      client that was issued client credentials (or with other
      authentication requirements),

   o  authenticate the client if client authentication is included,

   o  ensure that the authorization code was issued to the authenticated
      confidential client, or if the client is public, ensure that the
      code was issued to "client_id" in the request,

   o  verify that the authorization code is valid, and

   o  ensure that the "redirect_uri" parameter is present if the
      "redirect_uri" parameter was included in the initial authorization
      request as described in Section 4.1.1, and if included ensure that
      their values are identical.

4.1.4.  Access Token Response

   If the access token request is valid and authorized, the
   authorization server issues an access token and optional refresh
   token as described in Section 5.1.  If the request client
   authentication failed or is invalid, the authorization server returns
   an error response as described in Section 5.2.

   An example successful response:

     HTTP/1.1 200 OK
     Content-Type: application/json;charset=UTF-8
     Cache-Control: no-store
     Pragma: no-cache

     {
       "access_token":"2YotnFZFEjr1zCsicMWpAA",
       "token_type":"example",
       "expires_in":3600,
       "refresh_token":"tGzv3JOkF0XG5Qx2TlKWIA",
       "example_parameter":"example_value"
     }

---
1.5.  Refresh Token

   Refresh tokens are credentials used to obtain access tokens.  Refresh
   tokens are issued to the client by the authorization server and are
   used to obtain a new access token when the current access token
   becomes invalid or expires, or to obtain additional access tokens
   with identical or narrower scope (access tokens may have a shorter
   lifetime and fewer permissions than authorized by the resource
   owner).  Issuing a refresh token is optional at the discretion of the
   authorization server.  If the authorization server issues a refresh
   token, it is included when issuing an access token (i.e., step (D) in
   Figure 1).

   A refresh token is a string representing the authorization granted to
   the client by the resource owner.  The string is usually opaque to
   the client.  The token denotes an identifier used to retrieve the
   authorization information.  Unlike access tokens, refresh tokens are
   intended for use only with authorization servers and are never sent
   to resource servers.

  +--------+                                           +---------------+
  |        |--(A)------- Authorization Grant --------->|               |
  |        |                                           |               |
  |        |<-(B)----------- Access Token -------------|               |
  |        |               & Refresh Token             |               |
  |        |                                           |               |
  |        |                            +----------+   |               |
  |        |--(C)---- Access Token ---->|          |   |               |
  |        |                            |          |   |               |
  |        |<-(D)- Protected Resource --| Resource |   | Authorization |
  | Client |                            |  Server  |   |     Server    |
  |        |--(E)---- Access Token ---->|          |   |               |
  |        |                            |          |   |               |
  |        |<-(F)- Invalid Token Error -|          |   |               |
  |        |                            +----------+   |               |
  |        |                                           |               |
  |        |--(G)----------- Refresh Token ----------->|               |
  |        |                                           |               |
  |        |<-(H)----------- Access Token -------------|               |
  +--------+           & Optional Refresh Token        +---------------+

               Figure 2: Refreshing an Expired Access Token

   The flow illustrated in Figure 2 includes the following steps:

   (A)  The client requests an access token by authenticating with the
        authorization server and presenting an authorization grant.

   (B)  The authorization server authenticates the client and validates
        the authorization grant, and if valid, issues an access token
        and a refresh token.

   (C)  The client makes a protected resource request to the resource
        server by presenting the access token.

   (D)  The resource server validates the access token, and if valid,
        serves the request.

   (E)  Steps (C) and (D) repeat until the access token expires.  If the
        client knows the access token expired, it skips to step (G);
        otherwise, it makes another protected resource request.

   (F)  Since the access token is invalid, the resource server returns
        an invalid token error.

   (G)  The client requests a new access token by authenticating with
        the authorization server and presenting the refresh token.  The
        client authentication requirements are based on the client type
        and on the authorization server policies.

   (H)  The authorization server authenticates the client and validates
        the refresh token, and if valid, issues a new access token (and,
        optionally, a new refresh token).

   Steps (C), (D), (E), and (F) are outside the scope of this
   specification, as described in Section 7.

6.  Refreshing an Access Token

   If the authorization server issued a refresh token to the client, the
   client makes a refresh request to the token endpoint by adding the
   following parameters using the "application/x-www-form-urlencoded"
   format per Appendix B with a character encoding of UTF-8 in the HTTP
   request entity-body:

   grant_type
         REQUIRED.  Value MUST be set to "refresh_token".

   refresh_token
         REQUIRED.  The refresh token issued to the client.

   scope
         OPTIONAL.  The scope of the access request as described by
         Section 3.3.  The requested scope MUST NOT include any scope
         not originally granted by the resource owner, and if omitted is
         treated as equal to the scope originally granted by the
         resource owner.

   Because refresh tokens are typically long-lasting credentials used to
   request additional access tokens, the refresh token is bound to the
   client to which it was issued.  If the client type is confidential or
   the client was issued client credentials (or assigned other
   authentication requirements), the client MUST authenticate with the
   authorization server as described in Section 3.2.1.

   For example, the client makes the following HTTP request using
   transport-layer security (with extra line breaks for display purposes
   only):

     POST /token HTTP/1.1
     Host: server.example.com
     Authorization: Basic czZCaGRSa3F0MzpnWDFmQmF0M2JW
     Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded

     grant_type=refresh_token&refresh_token=tGzv3JOkF0XG5Qx2TlKWIA

   The authorization server MUST:

   o  require client authentication for confidential clients or for any
      client that was issued client credentials (or with other
      authentication requirements),

   o  authenticate the client if client authentication is included and
      ensure that the refresh token was issued to the authenticated
      client, and

   o  validate the refresh token.

   If valid and authorized, the authorization server issues an access
   token as described in Section 5.1.  If the request failed
   verification or is invalid, the authorization server returns an error
   response as described in Section 5.2.

   The authorization server MAY issue a new refresh token, in which case
   the client MUST discard the old refresh token and replace it with the
   new refresh token.  The authorization server MAY revoke the old
   refresh token after issuing a new refresh token to the client.  If a
   new refresh token is issued, the refresh token scope MUST be
   identical to that of the refresh token included by the client in the
   request.

---
4.14.  Refresh Token Protection

   Refresh tokens are a convenient and user-friendly way to obtain new
   access tokens.  They also add to the security of OAuth, since they
   allow the authorization server to issue access tokens with a short
   lifetime and reduced scope, thus reducing the potential impact of
   access token leakage.

4.14.1.  Discussion

   Refresh tokens are an attractive target for attackers because they
   represent the full scope of access granted to a certain client, and
   they are not further constrained to a specific resource.  If an
   attacker is able to exfiltrate and successfully replay a refresh
   token, the attacker will be able to mint access tokens and use them
   to access resource servers on behalf of the resource owner.

   [RFC6749] already provides robust baseline protection by requiring

   *  confidentiality of the refresh tokens in transit and storage,
   *  the transmission of refresh tokens over TLS-protected connections
      between authorization server and client,
   *  the authorization server to maintain and check the binding of a
      refresh token to a certain client and authentication of this
      client during token refresh, if possible, and
   *  that refresh tokens cannot be generated, modified, or guessed.

   [RFC6749] also lays the foundation for further (implementation-
   specific) security measures, such as refresh token expiration and
   revocation as well as refresh token rotation by defining respective
   error codes and response behaviors.

   This specification gives recommendations beyond the scope of
   [RFC6749] and clarifications.

4.14.2.  Recommendations

   Authorization servers MUST determine, based on a risk assessment,
   whether to issue refresh tokens to a certain client.  If the
   authorization server decides not to issue refresh tokens, the client
   MAY obtain a new access token by utilizing other grant types, such as
   the authorization code grant type.  In such a case, the authorization
   server may utilize cookies and persistent grants to optimize the user
   experience.

   If refresh tokens are issued, those refresh tokens MUST be bound to
   the scope and resource servers as consented by the resource owner.
   This is to prevent privilege escalation by the legitimate client and
   reduce the impact of refresh token leakage.

   For confidential clients, [RFC6749] already requires that refresh
   tokens can only be used by the client for which they were issued.

   Authorization servers MUST utilize one of these methods to detect
   refresh token replay by malicious actors for public clients:

   *  *Sender-constrained refresh tokens:* the authorization server
      cryptographically binds the refresh token to a certain client
      instance, e.g., by utilizing [RFC8705] or [RFC9449].

   *  *Refresh token rotation:* the authorization server issues a new
      refresh token with every access token refresh response.  The
      previous refresh token is invalidated, but information about the
      relationship is retained by the authorization server.  If a
      refresh token is compromised and subsequently used by both the
      attacker and the legitimate client, one of them will present an
      invalidated refresh token, which will inform the authorization
      server of the breach.  The authorization server cannot determine
      which party submitted the invalid refresh token, but it will
      revoke the active refresh token.  This stops the attack at the
      cost of forcing the legitimate client to obtain a fresh
      authorization grant.

      Implementation note: The grant to which a refresh token belongs
      may be encoded into the refresh token itself.  This can enable an
      authorization server to efficiently determine the grant to which a
      refresh token belongs, and by extension, all refresh tokens that
      need to be revoked.  Authorization servers MUST ensure the
      integrity of the refresh token value in this case, for example,
      using signatures.

   Authorization servers MAY revoke refresh tokens automatically in case
   of a security event, such as:

   *  password change or
   *  logout at the authorization server.

   Refresh tokens SHOULD expire if the client has been inactive for some
   time, i.e., the refresh token has not been used to obtain fresh
   access tokens for some time.  The expiration time is at the
   discretion of the authorization server.  It might be a global value
   or determined based on the client policy or the grant associated with
   the refresh token (and its sensitivity).
---

1.1.  Protocol Flow

                                                 +-------------------+
                                                 |   Authz Server    |
       +--------+                                | +---------------+ |
       |        |--(A)- Authorization Request ---->|               | |
       |        |       + t(code_verifier), t_m  | | Authorization | |
       |        |                                | |    Endpoint   | |
       |        |<-(B)---- Authorization Code -----|               | |
       |        |                                | +---------------+ |
       | Client |                                |                   |
       |        |                                | +---------------+ |
       |        |--(C)-- Access Token Request ---->|               | |
       |        |          + code_verifier       | |    Token      | |
       |        |                                | |   Endpoint    | |
       |        |<-(D)------ Access Token ---------|               | |
       +--------+                                | +---------------+ |
                                                 +-------------------+

                     Figure 2: Abstract Protocol Flow



Sakimura, et al.             Standards Track                    [Page 5]

RFC 7636                       OAUTH PKCE                 September 2015


   This specification adds additional parameters to the OAuth 2.0
   Authorization and Access Token Requests, shown in abstract form in
   Figure 2.

   A. The client creates and records a secret named the "code_verifier"
      and derives a transformed version "t(code_verifier)" (referred to
      as the "code_challenge"), which is sent in the OAuth 2.0
      Authorization Request along with the transformation method "t_m".

   B. The Authorization Endpoint responds as usual but records
      "t(code_verifier)" and the transformation method.

   C. The client then sends the authorization code in the Access Token
      Request as usual but includes the "code_verifier" secret generated
      at (A).

   D. The authorization server transforms "code_verifier" and compares
      it to "t(code_verifier)" from (B).  Access is denied if they are
      not equal.

   An attacker who intercepts the authorization code at (B) is unable to
   redeem it for an access token, as they are not in possession of the
   "code_verifier" secret.

2.1.1.  Authorization Code Grant

   Clients MUST prevent authorization code injection attacks (see
   Section 4.5) and misuse of authorization codes using one of the
   following options:

   *  Public clients MUST use PKCE [RFC7636] to this end, as motivated
      in Section 4.5.3.1.
   *  For confidential clients, the use of PKCE [RFC7636] is
      RECOMMENDED, as it provides strong protection against misuse and
      injection of authorization codes as described in Section 4.5.3.1.
      Also, as a side effect, it prevents CSRF even in the presence of
      strong attackers as described in Section 4.7.1.
   *  With additional precautions, described in Section 4.5.3.2,
      confidential OpenID Connect [OpenID.Core] clients MAY use the
      nonce parameter and the respective Claim in the ID Token instead.

   In any case, the PKCE challenge or OpenID Connect nonce MUST be
   transaction-specific and securely bound to the client and the user
   agent in which the transaction was started.  Authorization servers
   are encouraged to make a reasonable effort at detecting and
   preventing the use of constant values for the PKCE challenge or
   OpenID Connect nonce.

   Note: Although PKCE was designed as a mechanism to protect native
   apps, this advice applies to all kinds of OAuth clients, including
   web applications.

   When using PKCE, clients SHOULD use PKCE code challenge methods that
   do not expose the PKCE verifier in the authorization request.
   Otherwise, attackers that can read the authorization request (cf.
   Attacker (A4) in Section 3) can break the security provided by PKCE.
   Currently, S256 is the only such method.

   Authorization servers MUST support PKCE [RFC7636].

   If a client sends a valid PKCE code_challenge parameter in the
   authorization request, the authorization server MUST enforce the
   correct usage of code_verifier at the token endpoint.

   Authorization servers MUST mitigate PKCE downgrade attacks by
   ensuring that a token request containing a code_verifier parameter is
   accepted only if a code_challenge parameter was present in the
   authorization request; see Section 4.8.2 for details.

   Authorization servers MUST provide a way to detect their support for
   PKCE.  It is RECOMMENDED for authorization servers to publish the
   element code_challenge_methods_supported in their Authorization
   Server Metadata [RFC8414] containing the supported PKCE challenge
   methods (which can be used by the client to detect PKCE support).
   Authorization servers MAY instead provide a deployment-specific way
   to ensure or determine PKCE support by the authorization server.
