1.3.2.  Implicit

   The implicit grant is a simplified authorization code flow optimized
   for clients implemented in a browser using a scripting language such
   as JavaScript.  In the implicit flow, instead of issuing the client
   an authorization code, the client is issued an access token directlys
   (as the result of the resource owner authorization).  The grant type
   is implicit, as no intermediate credentials (such as an authorization
   code) are issued (and later used to obtain an access token).

   When issuing an access token during the implicit grant flow, the
   authorization server does not authenticate the client.  In some
   cases, the client identity can be verified via the redirection URI
   used to deliver the access token to the client.  The access token may
   be exposed to the resource owner or other applications with access to
   the resource owner's user-agent.

   Implicit grants improve the responsiveness and efficiency of some
   clients (such as a client implemented as an in-browser application),
   since it reduces the number of round trips required to obtain an
   access token.  However, this convenience should be weighed against
   the security implications of using implicit grants, such as those
   described in Sections 10.3 and 10.16, especially when the
   authorization code grant type is available.

4.2.  Implicit Grant
   The implicit grant type is used to obtain access tokens (it does not
   support the issuance of refresh tokens) and is optimized for public
   clients known to operate a particular redirection URI.  These clients
   are typically implemented in a browser using a scripting language
   such as JavaScript.
   Since this is a redirection-based flow, the client must be capable of
   interacting with the resource owner's user-agent (typically a web
   browser) and capable of receiving incoming requests (via redirection)
   from the authorization server.
   Unlike the authorization code grant type, in which the client makes
   separate requests for authorization and for an access token, the
   client receives the access token as the result of the authorization
   request.
   The implicit grant type does not include client authentication, and
   relies on the presence of the resource owner and the registration of
   the redirection URI.  Because the access token is encoded into the
   redirection URI, it may be exposed to the resource owner and other
   applications residing on the same device.

     +----------+
     | Resource |
     |  Owner   |
     |          |
     +----------+
          ^
          |
         (B)
     +----|-----+          Client Identifier     +---------------+
     |         -+----(A)-- & Redirection URI --->|               |
     |  User-   |                                | Authorization |
     |  Agent  -|----(B)-- User authenticates -->|     Server    |
     |          |                                |               |
     |          |<---(C)--- Redirection URI ----<|               |
     |          |          with Access Token     +---------------+
     |          |            in Fragment
     |          |                                +---------------+
     |          |----(D)--- Redirection URI ---->|   Web-Hosted  |
     |          |          without Fragment      |     Client    |
     |          |                                |    Resource   |
     |     (F)  |<---(E)------- Script ---------<|               |
     |          |                                +---------------+
     +-|--------+
       |    |
      (A)  (G) Access Token
       |    |
       ^    v
     +---------+
     |         |
     |  Client |
     |         |
     +---------+
   Note: The lines illustrating steps (A) and (B) are broken into two
   parts as they pass through the user-agent.
                       Figure 4: Implicit Grant Flow

   The flow illustrated in Figure 4 includes the following steps:
   (A)  The client initiates the flow by directing the resource owner's
        user-agent to the authorization endpoint.  The client includes
        its client identifier, requested scope, local state, and a
        redirection URI to which the authorization server will send the
        user-agent back once access is granted (or denied).
   (B)  The authorization server authenticates the resource owner (via
        the user-agent) and establishes whether the resource owner
        grants or denies the client's access request.
   (C)  Assuming the resource owner grants access, the authorization
        server redirects the user-agent back to the client using the
        redirection URI provided earlier.  The redirection URI includes
        the access token in the URI fragment.
   (D)  The user-agent follows the redirection instructions by making a
        request to the web-hosted client resource (which does not
        include the fragment per [RFC2616]).  The user-agent retains the
        fragment information locally.
   (E)  The web-hosted client resource returns a web page (typically an
        HTML document with an embedded script) capable of accessing the
        full redirection URI including the fragment retained by the
        user-agent, and extracting the access token (and other
        parameters) contained in the fragment.
   (F)  The user-agent executes the script provided by the web-hosted
        client resource locally, which extracts the access token.
   (G)  The user-agent passes the access token to the client.
   See Sections 1.3.2 and 9 for background on using the implicit grant.
   See Sections 10.3 and 10.16 for important security considerations
   when using the implicit grant.
4.2.1.  Authorization Request
   The client constructs the request URI by adding the following
   parameters to the query component of the authorization endpoint URI
   using the "application/x-www-form-urlencoded" format, per Appendix B:
   response_type
         REQUIRED.  Value MUST be set to "token".
   client_id
         REQUIRED.  The client identifier as described in Section 2.2.
   redirect_uri
         OPTIONAL.  As described in Section 3.1.2.
   scope
         OPTIONAL.  The scope of the access request as described by
         Section 3.3.
   state
         RECOMMENDED.  An opaque value used by the client to maintain
         state between the request and callback.  The authorization
         server includes this value when redirecting the user-agent back
         to the client.  The parameter SHOULD be used for preventing
         cross-site request forgery as described in Section 10.12.
   The client directs the resource owner to the constructed URI using an
   HTTP redirection response, or by other means available to it via the
   user-agent.
   For example, the client directs the user-agent to make the following
   HTTP request using TLS (with extra line breaks for display purposes
   only):
    GET /authorize?response_type=token&client_id=s6BhdRkqt3&state=xyz
        &redirect_uri=https%3A%2F%2Fclient%2Eexample%2Ecom%2Fcb HTTP/1.1
    Host: server.example.com
   The authorization server validates the request to ensure that all
   required parameters are present and valid.  The authorization server
   MUST verify that the redirection URI to which it will redirect the
   access token matches a redirection URI registered by the client as
   described in Section 3.1.2.
   If the request is valid, the authorization server authenticates the
   resource owner and obtains an authorization decision (by asking the
   resource owner or by establishing approval via other means).
   When a decision is established, the authorization server directs the
   user-agent to the provided client redirection URI using an HTTP
   redirection response, or by other means available to it via the
   user-agent.

4.2.2.  Access Token Response
   If the resource owner grants the access request, the authorization
   server issues an access token and delivers it to the client by adding
   the following parameters to the fragment component of the redirection
   URI using the "application/x-www-form-urlencoded" format, per
   Appendix B:
   access_token
         REQUIRED.  The access token issued by the authorization server.
   token_type
         REQUIRED.  The type of the token issued as described in
         Section 7.1.  Value is case insensitive.
   expires_in
         RECOMMENDED.  The lifetime in seconds of the access token.  For
         example, the value "3600" denotes that the access token will
         expire in one hour from the time the response was generated.
         If omitted, the authorization server SHOULD provide the
         expiration time via other means or document the default value.
   scope
         OPTIONAL, if identical to the scope requested by the client;
         otherwise, REQUIRED.  The scope of the access token as
         described by Section 3.3.
   state
         REQUIRED if the "state" parameter was present in the client
         authorization request.  The exact value received from the
         client.
   The authorization server MUST NOT issue a refresh token.
   For example, the authorization server redirects the user-agent by
   sending the following HTTP response (with extra line breaks for
   display purposes only):
     HTTP/1.1 302 Found
     Location: http://example.com/cb#access_token=2YotnFZFEjr1zCsicMWpAA
               &state=xyz&token_type=example&expires_in=3600
   Developers should note that some user-agents do not support the
   inclusion of a fragment component in the HTTP "Location" response
   header field.  Such clients will require using other methods for
   redirecting the client than a 3xx redirection response -- for
   example, returning an HTML page that includes a 'continue' button
   with an action linked to the redirection URI.

   The client MUST ignore unrecognized response parameters.  The access
   token string size is left undefined by this specification.  The
   client should avoid making assumptions about value sizes.  The
   authorization server SHOULD document the size of any value it issues.
4.2.2.1.  Error Response
   If the request fails due to a missing, invalid, or mismatching
   redirection URI, or if the client identifier is missing or invalid,
   the authorization server SHOULD inform the resource owner of the
   error and MUST NOT automatically redirect the user-agent to the
   invalid redirection URI.
   If the resource owner denies the access request or if the request
   fails for reasons other than a missing or invalid redirection URI,
   the authorization server informs the client by adding the following
   parameters to the fragment component of the redirection URI using the
   "application/x-www-form-urlencoded" format, per Appendix B:
   error
         REQUIRED.  A single ASCII [USASCII] error code from the
         following:
         invalid_request
               The request is missing a required parameter, includes an
               invalid parameter value, includes a parameter more than
               once, or is otherwise malformed.
         unauthorized_client
               The client is not authorized to request an access token
               using this method.
         access_denied
               The resource owner or authorization server denied the
               request.
         unsupported_response_type
               The authorization server does not support obtaining an
               access token using this method.
         invalid_scope
               The requested scope is invalid, unknown, or malformed.
         server_error
               The authorization server encountered an unexpected
               condition that prevented it from fulfilling the request.
               (This error code is needed because a 500 Internal Server
               Error HTTP status code cannot be returned to the client
               via an HTTP redirect.)
         temporarily_unavailable
               The authorization server is currently unable to handle
               the request due to a temporary overloading or maintenance
               of the server.  (This error code is needed because a 503
               Service Unavailable HTTP status code cannot be returned
               to the client via an HTTP redirect.)
         Values for the "error" parameter MUST NOT include characters
         outside the set %x20-21 / %x23-5B / %x5D-7E.
   error_description
         OPTIONAL.  Human-readable ASCII [USASCII] text providing
         additional information, used to assist the client developer in
         understanding the error that occurred.
         Values for the "error_description" parameter MUST NOT include
         characters outside the set %x20-21 / %x23-5B / %x5D-7E.
   error_uri
         OPTIONAL.  A URI identifying a human-readable web page with
         information about the error, used to provide the client
         developer with additional information about the error.
         Values for the "error_uri" parameter MUST conform to the
         URI-reference syntax and thus MUST NOT include characters
         outside the set %x21 / %x23-5B / %x5D-7E.
   state
         REQUIRED if a "state" parameter was present in the client
         authorization request.  The exact value received from the
         client.
   For example, the authorization server redirects the user-agent by
   sending the following HTTP response:
   HTTP/1.1 302 Found
   Location: https://client.example.com/cb#error=access_denied&state=xyz

---

2.1.2.  Implicit Grant

   The implicit grant (response type token) and other response types
   causing the authorization server to issue access tokens in the
   authorization response are vulnerable to access token leakage and
   access token replay as described in Sections 4.1, 4.2, 4.3, and 4.6.

   Moreover, no standardized method for sender-constraining exists to
   bind access tokens to a specific client (as recommended in
   Section 2.2) when the access tokens are issued in the authorization
   response.  This means that an attacker can use the leaked or stolen
   access token at a resource endpoint.

   In order to avoid these issues, clients SHOULD NOT use the implicit
   grant (response type token) or other response types issuing access
   tokens in the authorization response, unless access token injection
   in the authorization response is prevented and the aforementioned
   token leakage vectors are mitigated.

   Clients SHOULD instead use the response type code (i.e.,
   authorization code grant type) as specified in Section 2.1.1 or any
   other response type that causes the authorization server to issue
   access tokens in the token response, such as the code id_token
   response type.  This allows the authorization server to detect replay
   attempts by attackers and generally reduces the attack surface since
   access tokens are not exposed in URLs.  It also allows the
   authorization server to sender-constrain the issued tokens (see
   Section 2.2).


4.1.  Insufficient Redirection URI Validation

   Some authorization servers allow clients to register redirection URI
   patterns instead of complete redirection URIs.  The authorization
   servers then match the redirection URI parameter value at the
   authorization endpoint against the registered patterns at runtime.
   This approach allows clients to encode transaction state into
   additional redirect URI parameters or to register a single pattern
   for multiple redirection URIs.

   This approach turned out to be more complex to implement and more
   error-prone to manage than exact redirection URI matching.  Several
   successful attacks exploiting flaws in the pattern-matching
   implementation or concrete configurations have been observed in the
   wild (see, e.g., [research.rub2]).  Insufficient validation of the
   redirection URI effectively breaks client identification or
   authentication (depending on grant and client type) and allows the
   attacker to obtain an authorization code or access token, either

   *  by directly sending the user agent to a URI under the attacker's
      control, or
   *  by exposing the OAuth credentials to an attacker by utilizing an
      open redirector at the client in conjunction with the way user
      agents handle URL fragments.

   These attacks are shown in detail in the following subsections.

4.1.1.  Redirect URI Validation Attacks on Authorization Code Grant

   For a client using the grant type code, an attack may work as
   follows:

   Assume the redirection URL pattern https://*.somesite.example/* is
   registered for the client with the client ID s6BhdRkqt3.  The
   intention is to allow any subdomain of somesite.example to be a valid
   redirection URI for the client, for example,
   https://app1.somesite.example/redirect.  However, a naive
   implementation on the authorization server might interpret the
   wildcard * as "any character" and not "any character valid for a
   domain name".  The authorization server, therefore, might permit
   https://attacker.example/.somesite.example as a redirection URI,
   although attacker.example is a different domain potentially
   controlled by a malicious party.

   The attack can then be conducted as follows:

   To begin, the attacker needs to trick the user into opening a
   tampered URL in their browser that launches a page under the
   attacker's control, say, https://www.evil.example (see attacker A1 in
   Section 3).

   This URL initiates the following authorization request with the
   client ID of a legitimate client to the authorization endpoint (line
   breaks for display only):

   GET /authorize?response_type=code&client_id=s6BhdRkqt3&state=9ad67f13
        &redirect_uri=https%3A%2F%2Fattacker.example%2F.somesite.example
        HTTP/1.1
   Host: server.somesite.example

   The authorization server validates the redirection URI and compares
   it to the registered redirection URL patterns for the client
   s6BhdRkqt3.  The authorization request is processed and presented to
   the user.

   If the user does not see the redirection URI or does not recognize
   the attack, the code is issued and immediately sent to the attacker's
   domain.  If an automatic approval of the authorization is enabled
   (which is not recommended for public clients according to [RFC6749]),
   the attack can be performed even without user interaction.

   If the attacker impersonates a public client, the attacker can
   exchange the code for tokens at the respective token endpoint.

   This attack will not work as easily for confidential clients, since
   the code exchange requires authentication with the legitimate
   client's secret.  However, the attacker can use the legitimate
   confidential client to redeem the code by performing an authorization
   code injection attack; see Section 4.5.

   It is important to note that redirection URI validation
   vulnerabilities can also exist if the authorization server handles
   wildcards properly.  For example, assume that the client registers
   the redirection URL pattern https://*.somesite.example/* and the
   authorization server interprets this as "allow redirection URIs
   pointing to any host residing in the domain somesite.example".  If an
   attacker manages to establish a host or subdomain in
   somesite.example, the attacker can impersonate the legitimate client.
   For example, this could be caused by a subdomain takeover attack
   [research.udel], where an outdated CNAME record (say, external-
   service.somesite.example) points to an external DNS name that no
   longer exists (say, customer-abc.service.example) and can be taken
   over by an attacker (e.g., by registering as customer-abc with the
   external service).

4.1.2.  Redirect URI Validation Attacks on Implicit Grant

   The attack described above works for the implicit grant as well.  If
   the attacker is able to send the authorization response to an
   attacker-controlled URI, the attacker will directly get access to the
   fragment carrying the access token.

   Additionally, implicit grants (and also other grants when using
   response_mode=fragment as defined in [OAuth.Responses]) can be
   subject to a further kind of attack.  The attack utilizes the fact
   that user agents reattach fragments to the destination URL of a
   redirect if the location header does not contain a fragment (see
   Section 17.11 of [RFC9110]).  The attack described here combines this
   behavior with the client as an open redirector (see Section 4.11.1)
   in order to obtain access tokens.  This allows circumvention even of
   very narrow redirection URI patterns, but not of strict URL matching.

   Assume the registered URL pattern for client s6BhdRkqt3 is
   https://client.somesite.example/cb?*, i.e., any parameter is allowed
   for redirects to https://client.somesite.example/cb.  Unfortunately,
   the client exposes an open redirector.  This endpoint supports a
   parameter redirect_to which takes a target URL and will send the
   browser to this URL using an HTTP Location header redirect 303.

   The attack can now be conducted as follows:

   To begin, as above, the attacker needs to trick the user into opening
   a tampered URL in their browser that launches a page under the
   attacker's control, say, https://www.evil.example.

   Afterwards, the website initiates an authorization request that is
   very similar to the one in the attack on the code flow.  Different to
   above, it utilizes the open redirector by encoding
   redirect_to=https://attacker.example into the parameters of the
   redirection URI, and it uses the response type token (line breaks for
   display only):

   GET /authorize?response_type=token&state=9ad67f13
       &client_id=s6BhdRkqt3
       &redirect_uri=https%3A%2F%2Fclient.somesite.example
        %2Fcb%26redirect_to%253Dhttps%253A%252F
        %252Fattacker.example%252F HTTP/1.1
   Host: server.somesite.example

   Then, since the redirection URI matches the registered pattern, the
   authorization server permits the request and sends the resulting
   access token in a 303 redirect (some response parameters omitted for
   readability):

   HTTP/1.1 303 See Other
   Location: https://client.somesite.example/cb?
             redirect_to%3Dhttps%3A%2F%2Fattacker.example%2Fcb
             #access_token=2YotnFZFEjr1zCsicMWpAA&...

   At client.somesite.example, the request arrives at the open
   redirector.  The endpoint will read the redirect parameter and will
   issue an HTTP 303 Location header redirect to the URL
   https://attacker.example/.

   HTTP/1.1 303 See Other
   Location: https://attacker.example/

   Since the redirector at client.somesite.example does not include a
   fragment in the Location header, the user agent will reattach the
   original fragment #access_token=2YotnFZFEjr1zCsicMWpAA&amp;... to the
   URL and will navigate to the following URL:

   https://attacker.example/#access_token=2YotnFZFEjr1z...

   The attacker's page at attacker.example can then access the fragment
   and obtain the access token.

4.1.3.  Countermeasures

   The complexity of implementing and managing pattern matching
   correctly obviously causes security issues.  This document therefore
   advises simplifying the required logic and configuration by using
   exact redirection URI matching.  This means the authorization server
   MUST ensure that the two URIs are equal; see Section 6.2.1 of
   [RFC3986], Simple String Comparison, for details.  The only exception
   is native apps using a localhost URI: In this case, the authorization
   server MUST allow variable port numbers as described in Section 7.3
   of [RFC8252].

   Additional recommendations:

   *  Web servers on which redirection URIs are hosted MUST NOT expose
      open redirectors (see Section 4.11).
   *  Browsers reattach URL fragments to Location redirection URLs only
      if the URL in the Location header does not already contain a
      fragment.  Therefore, servers MAY prevent browsers from
      reattaching fragments to redirection URLs by attaching an
      arbitrary fragment identifier, for example #_, to URLs in Location
      headers.
   *  Clients SHOULD use the authorization code response type instead of
      response types that cause access token issuance at the
      authorization endpoint.  This offers countermeasures against the
      reuse of leaked credentials through the exchange process with the
      authorization server and against token replay through sender-
      constraining of the access tokens.

   If the origin and integrity of the authorization request containing
   the redirection URI can be verified, for example, when using
   [RFC9101] or [RFC9126] with client authentication, the authorization
   server MAY trust the redirection URI without further checks.

4.2.  Credential Leakage via Referer Headers

   The contents of the authorization request URI or the authorization
   response URI can unintentionally be disclosed to attackers through
   the Referer HTTP header (see Section 10.1.3 of [RFC9110]), by leaking
   from either the authorization server's or the client's website,
   respectively.  Most importantly, authorization codes or state values
   can be disclosed in this way.  Although specified otherwise in
   Section 10.1.3 of [RFC9110], the same may happen to access tokens
   conveyed in URI fragments due to browser implementation issues, as
   illustrated by a (now fixed) issue in the Chromium project
   [bug.chromium].

4.2.1.  Leakage from the OAuth Client

   Leakage from the OAuth client requires that the client, as a result
   of a successful authorization request, renders a page that

   *  contains links to other pages under the attacker's control and a
      user clicks on such a link, or
   *  includes third-party content (advertisements in iframes, images,
      etc.), for example, if the page contains user-generated content
      (blog).

   As soon as the browser navigates to the attacker's page or loads the
   third-party content, the attacker receives the authorization response
   URL and can extract code or state (and potentially access_token).

4.2.2.  Leakage from the Authorization Server

   In a similar way, an attacker can learn state from the authorization
   request if the authorization endpoint at the authorization server
   contains links or third-party content as above.

4.2.3.  Consequences

   An attacker that learns a valid code or access token through a
   Referer header can perform the attacks as described in Sections
   4.1.1, 4.5 and 4.6.  If the attacker learns state, the CSRF
   protection achieved by using state is lost, resulting in CSRF attacks
   as described in Section 4.4.1.8 of [RFC6819].

4.2.4.  Countermeasures

   The page rendered as a result of the OAuth authorization response and
   the authorization endpoint SHOULD NOT include third-party resources
   or links to external sites.

   The following measures further reduce the chances of a successful
   attack:

   *  Suppress the Referer header by applying an appropriate Referrer
      Policy [W3C.webappsec-referrer-policy] to the document (either as
      part of the "referrer" meta attribute or by setting a Referrer-
      Policy header).  For example, the header Referrer-Policy: no-
      referrer in the response completely suppresses the Referer header
      in all requests originating from the resulting document.

   *  Use authorization code instead of response types causing access
      token issuance from the authorization endpoint.

   *  Bind the authorization code to a confidential client or PKCE
      challenge.  In this case, the attacker lacks the secret to request
      the code exchange.

   *  As described in Section 4.1.2 of [RFC6749], authorization codes
      MUST be invalidated by the authorization server after their first
      use at the token endpoint.  For example, if an authorization
      server invalidated the code after the legitimate client redeemed
      it, the attacker would fail to exchange this code later.

      This does not mitigate the attack if the attacker manages to
      exchange the code for a token before the legitimate client does
      so.  Therefore, [RFC6749] further recommends that, when an attempt
      is made to redeem a code twice, the authorization server SHOULD
      revoke all tokens issued previously based on that code.

   *  The state value SHOULD be invalidated by the client after its
      first use at the redirection endpoint.  If this is implemented,
      and an attacker receives a token through the Referer header from
      the client's website, the state was already used, invalidated by
      the client and cannot be used again by the attacker.  (This does
      not help if the state leaks from the authorization server's
      website, since then the state has not been used at the redirection
      endpoint at the client yet.)

   *  Use the form post response mode instead of a redirect for the
      authorization response (see [OAuth.Post]).

4.3.  Credential Leakage via Browser History

   Authorization codes and access tokens can end up in the browser's
   history of visited URLs, enabling the attacks described in the
   following.

4.3.1.  Authorization Code in Browser History

   When a browser navigates to client.example/
   redirection_endpoint?code=abcd as a result of a redirect from a
   provider's authorization endpoint, the URL including the
   authorization code may end up in the browser's history.  An attacker
   with access to the device could obtain the code and try to replay it.

   Countermeasures:

   *  Authorization code replay prevention as described in
      Section 4.4.1.1 of [RFC6819], and Section 4.5.
   *  Use the form post response mode instead of redirect for the
      authorization response (see [OAuth.Post]).

4.3.2.  Access Token in Browser History

   An access token may end up in the browser history if a client or a
   website that already has a token deliberately navigates to a page
   like provider.com/get_user_profile?access_token=abcdef.  [RFC6750]
   discourages this practice and advises transferring tokens via a
   header, but in practice websites often pass access tokens in query
   parameters.

   In the case of implicit grant, a URL like client.example/
   redirection_endpoint#access_token=abcdef may also end up in the
   browser history as a result of a redirect from a provider's
   authorization endpoint.

   Countermeasures:

   *  Clients MUST NOT pass access tokens in a URI query parameter in
      the way described in Section 2.3 of [RFC6750].  The authorization
      code grant or alternative OAuth response modes like the form post
      response mode [OAuth.Post] can be used to this end.